note : redux questions are not included read from the blogs which are this folder


1. What is React ?
2. What are the advantages of using React?
3. What are the limitations of React?
4. What is useState() in React?
5. What are keys in React? 
6. What is JSX?
7. What are the differences between functional and class components?
8. What is the virtual DOM? How does react use the virtual DOM to render the UI?
9. What are the differences between controlled and uncontrolled components?
10. What are props in React?
11. Explain React state and props.
13. What is prop drilling in React?
14. What are error boundaries?
15. What is React Hooks?
16. Explain React Hooks.
17. What are the rules that must be followed while using React Hooks?
18. What is the use of useEffect React Hooks?
19. Why do React Hooks make use of refs?
20. What are Custom Hooks?
1. How to perform automatic redirect after login?
2. How to pass data between sibling components using React router?
3. How to re-render the view when the browser is resized?
4. How to create a switching component for displaying different pages?
5. Explain how to create a simple React Hooks example program.
6. Explain conditional rendering in React.
8. What is React Router?
9. Do Hooks cover all the functionalities provided by the classes?
11. Differentiate React Hooks vs Classes.
12. Explain about types of Hooks in React.
14. What are the lifecycle methods of React?
15. What are the different phases of the component lifecycle?
16. What are Higher Order Components?
17. How to pass data between react components?
18. Name a few techniques to optimize React app performance.
19. What are the different ways to style a React component?
20. How to prevent re-renders in React?
21. Explain Strict Mode in React.
Explain the building blocks of React.
How do browsers read JSX? 
Explain the difference between React and Angular?
What is React Fragments?
What is the difference between useref and createRef in React ?
What is react-redux?
What are benefits of using react-redux?
Explain the core components of react-redux?
How can we combine multiple reducers in React?
What is axios and how to use it in React?
What is the difference between Element and Component?
What are Pure Components?
What is the difference between Shadow DOM and Virtual DOM?
How Does ReactJS work?
33. What is the Flux?
37. How is React routing different from conventional routing?
What is the purpose of the useMemo hook?
What are portals in React?
4) What are the biggest limitations of React?
11) How React's ES6 syntax is different from ES5 syntax?
Why is it necessary to start component names with a capital letter?
What are Forward Refs?
What happens with a component when it receives new props?
What are some common pitfalls when doing data fetching?
differentiate between createElement and cloneElement
explain lifting state up in react
is it necessary for keys to be globally unique
What is the difference between a Presentational component and a Container component?
What is the difference between npx and npm?
Why you should prefer vite over create-react-app?
Q22. What is server-side rendering (SSR) in React?
Explain the concept of tree shaking in the context of React and its benefits.
12. Describe the differences between React context and Redux for managing global state.
24. What are synthetic events in React?
45. What are the advantages of Redux?
What happens if you attempt to update the state directly?
"In React, everything is a component." Explain.
What is the purpose of render () in React.
What Are the Common Folder Structures for React?
 What is the purpose of callback function as an argument of setState()?
 14. What is React Fiber?
What is the difference between super() and super(props) in React using ES6 classes?
What is reconciliation?
Q: Describe the differences between useMemo and useCallback hooks.
Q: How would you implement a custom hook for handling API calls?
Q: How would you implement a debounce function in React?
3. What are three benefits of using React Hooks?
What is Context API in ReactJS?

What is Redux in ReactJS?
Is it true that Redux is only compatible with React?
What are some of Redux DevTools' most essential features?
In what situations may we use Redux?
Explain what a "store" in Redux means.
In Redux, how can we structure the top-level directories?
Are there similarities between Redux and RxJS?
What are the concepts of functional programming?
What is the difference between state and props?
What are ReactJs' limitations?
